# Integrals of measurable functions on measurable subsets of the line

## Truncated functions.

### Def.

Let $f$ be a non-negative function on $E$.
<font color = "#660066"> *This assumption will be extended later* </font><br/>
For $N>0$, we define a truncated function $[f]_N$ of $f$ by 
$$
[f]_N (x) := 
\left\{
\begin{aligned}
&f(x), \:f(x) \leq N; \\
&N, \: f(x)>N,
\end{aligned}
\right.
$$ or equivalently, $[f] = min\{f,N\}$ .

### Prop.
Let $f$ and $g$ be two non-negative functions on $E$. The following statements hold.
- (i) $f_N1 \leq f_n2 \leq f$ for all $ 0 < N_1 \leq N_2 < \infty $
- (ii) $[f+g]_N \leq [f]_N + [g]_N \leq [f+g]_2N$ for all N > 0
- (iii) $[af]_N = a[f]_{N/a}$ for all $a>0$

## Integrals for non-negative functions.

### Finite monotonic cover of the measure

*有限测度单调覆盖*
monotonic increasing sequence ${E_n}$ satisfying $E = \cup_{n = 1}^\infty E_n$ and $m(E_N) < \infty$ for all $n \in N$.

#### Remark.
The finite monotonic cover of $m(E)$ is not unique

#### Lemma.
Let $E\subset R$ be a measurable set, f a non-negative measurable function on $E$, ${E_n^{(1)}},{E_n^{(2)}}$ are two finite monotonic covers of the measure of $E$ and let ${M_n^{(1)}},\: {M_n^{(1)}}$ be two sequences of positive numbers with $\lim_{n_\infty} M_n^{(i)} = \infty$. If the limit
$$
s_1 = \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \int_{E_{n}^{(1)}} [f]_{M_n^{(1)}}dx < \infty,
$$ then $$
\lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \int_{E_{n}^{(2)}} [f]_{M_n^{(2)}}dx = s_1
$$ This can be proof by fix one coefficient, and discuss the other one. (具体过程形式上还有些类似卡氏条件)

### Definition.
Let $E \subset R$ be a Lebesgue measurabel set, $f$ a non-negative Lebesgue measurable function on $E$, $\{E_n \}$ a finite monotonic cover of the measure of $E$, and let $\{m_n \}$ be a sqquence of positive numbers with $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}$, $M_n = \infty$.
We call $f$ is Lebesgue integrabel on $E$ if the limit
$$
s:= \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \int_{E_n} [f]_{M_n} (x)dx <\infty
$$ and call s the Lebesgue integral of $f$ on $E$ which is denoted by
$$
s = \int_E f(x)dx
$$
#### Remark.

1. Obviouslt, the integral of $f$ on $E$ defined above is unique, this is, s is independent of choices of $\{ E_n$\} and $\{ M_n$\}. Thus, a non-negative measurabel function $f$ is integral on $E$ if and only if
$$
\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \int_{E_n} [f]_n (x)dx < \infty
$$ for some (其实是几乎所有) finite monotonic cover $\{ E_n\}$ of $m(E)$
2. 如果 $E$ 测度有限,同时  $f$ 在 $E$ 上有界,则 $\int_E f(x)dx$ 与上一小节中定义相同, 如此,我们可选择 $E_n = E$ 对于任意 $n \in N(自然数)$ 并且 $ N = sup_{x\in E}f(x)$

## Integrals for general real-valued functions.

拆分思想,将f表示为
$$
f = f_+ - f_-
$$ where $$
f_+(x) = \left\{
\begin{aligned}
f(x), \: f(x) \leq 0\\
0, \: f(x) < 0
\end{aligned}
\right.
$$ and $$
f_-(x) = \left\{
\begin{aligned}
-f(x), \: f(x) \geq 0\\
0, \: f(x) > 0
\end{aligned}
\right.
$$

### Definition.

Let $E \subset R$ be Lebesgue measurabel. A Lebesgue measurabel function $f$ on $E$ is said to be Lebesgue integrable on $E$ if $f_+$ and $f_-$ are both Lebesgue integrable on $E$. In this case, the Lebesgue integral of $f$ is defined by 
$$
\int_E f(x)dx = \int_E f_+(x)dx + \int_E f_- (x) dx.
$$

### Lemma.
Let $f$ be non-negative and Lebesgue integrabel on $E$ and $g$ Lebesgue measurabel on $E$.
If $\mid g \mid \leq f$, then $g$ is Lebesgue integrable on $E$

### Theorem.(Finite additivity)
$E\: ,E_1, \: E_2$ 勒贝格可测
$E = E_1 \cup E_2, \: E_1 \cap E_2 = \empty$
$f$ 在 $E$ 上勒贝格可积
则有
$$
\int_E f(x)dx = \int_{E_1} f(x)dx + \int_{E_2} f(x)dx 
$$ 利用定义证明
$$
\begin{aligned}
s&:= lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \int_{E_n} [f]_{M_n}(x)dx < \infty \\
\\
\int_{E_n} [f]_ {n} (x)dx &= \int_{{E_n}\cap E_1} [f]_ {n} (x)dx+ \int_{{E_n}\cap E_2} [f]_{ n}(x)dx \\
& \leq \int_{E_1} f\mid_{E_1} (x)dx+ \int_{E_2} f\mid_{E_2} (x)dx \\
& = \int_{E_1} f(x)dx + \int_{E_2} f(x)dx 
\end{aligned}
$$ Thus if $ f $ L integrable on $E_1$ and $ E_2$ then $f$ is integrable on E.
Conversely, let $f$ be integrable on E. Then
$$
\begin{aligned}
\int_{{E_n}\cap {E_i}} [f\mid_{E_i} ]_ n (x) dx &\leq \int_{E_i} [f\mid_{E_i} ]_n (x)dx\\
&\leq \int_E f (x)dx
\end{aligned}
$$

#### Extention.
For general function $f = f_+ - f_-$
$$
\begin{aligned}
\int_E f(x)dx =& int_E f_+ (x)dx + int_E f_- (x)dx \\
=& int_{E_1} f_+ (x)dx + int_{E_2} f_+ (x)dx \\
-& int_{E_1} f_- (x)dx - int_{E_2} f_- (x)dx \\
=& int_{E_1} f (x)dx + int_{E_2} f (x)dx
\end{aligned}
$$

### Theorem.(Linear property)
Let $f,\:g$ are two Lebesgue integrable function on $E$, for all $a,b\in R$ 
$$
\int_E (af(x)+bg(x))dx = a\int_E f(x)dx + b\int_E g(x)dx
$$ It suffices to prove
$$
\int_E af(x)dx = a\int_E f(x)dx
\tag{1.1}
$$ and
$$
\int_E (f(x)+g(x))dx = \int_E f(x)dx + \int_E g(x)dx
\tag{1.2}  
$$ 对于(1.1) 分别 假设$f\leq 0$,分别根据定义讨论 $a>0,\:a<0,\:a=0,$ 三种情况即可.
对于(1.2)可以通过(1.3)得出
$$
[f+g]_N \leq [f]_N + [G]_N \leq [f+g]_2N
\tag{1.3}
$$ The conclusion above is suitable for all $f_1 ... f_n \geq 0$ and $a_1 ...a_n \in R$
Use the Extention above we can easily get the same conclusion with $f$ and $g$ are normal functions

### Some Theorem of Lebesgue integral 
Let $ f $ and $g$ be two measurable functions on $E$. The following statements hold

### Theorem.(Complete continuity)
Let $f$ be integrable on $E$. Then for each $\epsilon > 0$, there is a $\delta > 0$ such that 
$$
\mid \int_E' f(x)\mid <\epsilon
$$ for every measurabel subset $E' \subset E$ with $m(E')<\delta$