# 勒贝格积分

## Definition of Lebesgue integrals

Let f be a bounded Lebesgue measurable function on E(E := [a,b])
For every partition $D: m = y_0 < y_1 < y_2 < y_3 … < y_{n-1} < y_n = M$,of [m,M),donate $$\delta (D):= max_{1\leq k \leq n} (y_k - y_{k-1}) , E_k:= E[y_{k-1} \leq f \leq y_k] $$ Futher on , take $\eta_k \in (y_k - y_{k-1})$,arbitraty and write $$S:= \sum_{k=1}^n \eta_k m(E_k) $$ If the limit $$ \lim_{\delta(D) \rightarrow 0} S := s $$ exists and s is independent of the partition D and points $\eta_k$，
*与取点划分方式无关*
then $f$ is Lebesgue integrable on E.
In addition , we call s the Lebesgue integral if f on the set E and write $$s = \int_E f(x)dx = (L) \int_a^b f(x)dx $$ 

Equivalent to $\color{#F0F}{\forall \epsilon > 0 ,\exists \delta > 0}$ such that for any D with $\color{#F0F}{\delta (D) < \delta}$ for all $\color{#F0F}{\eta_k \in [y_{k-1}, y_k]}$
$$\color{#F0F}{\mid S(D)-s\mid = \mid \sum_{k-1}^n \eta_k (E_k - s)\mid < \epsilon} $$

## Heine theorem

*海涅定理表明了函数极限与数列极限的关系，根据海涅定理，可以将函数极限问题转化为数列极限问题，或判断函数极限是否存在*
Let $f$ be a bounded Lebesgue measurable function on $E$. By the Heine theorem, $f$ is Lebesgue integrable on $E$ if and only if the limit $$\lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} S(D_n)$$ exists for every sequence ${D_n}$ of partitions of $[m, M)$ with $$δ(D_n) \rightarrow 0$$ as $$n\rightarrow \infty$$ and is <font color="#660066">independent of $D$ and $\eta_k$ .</font><br/>

## Uniqueness of the Lebesgue integral

<font color="#660066">$\int_E f(x)dx$ is independent of the choice of $m$ and $M$ .</font><br/>

Write $$a=inf_{x\in E} f(x), b=sup_{x\in E} f(x)$$ It suffices to consider the case $$ m < a \leq f(x) \leq b < M $$ Let D be a partition of [m,M): $$ m = y_0 < y_1 < y_2 < …  < y_{n-1} < y_n = M $$ Then there are $k_0$ and $k_1$ such that $a \in [y_{k_0-1},y_{k_0})$ and $b \in [y_{k_1-1},y_{k_1})$ so that $$ S (D) = \sum_{k=1}^n \eta_k m(E_k) = \sum_{k = k_0}^{k_1}\eta_k m(E_k)$$ Since such sets $E_k$ are all empty sets for $ k < k_0 $,and $ k > k_1 $Futher on, note that$$S(D) = \sum_{k = k_0}^{k_1}\eta_k m(E_k) = \sum_{k = k_0}^{k_1 - 1}\eta_k m(E_k) + bm(E')$$ Where $E' = E[f=b]$ By taking $y_{k_0} = a$ and $y_{k_1} = b$, we obtain a partition D' of [a,b):$$ a = y_{k_0} < y_1 < y_2 < … < y_{n-1} < y_{k_1} = b  $$ and $$ S(D) = S(D') + b m (E')$$ <font color="#660066">Thus, the integral of $f$ is dependent only if the value $a$ and $b$，so that independent of the $m$ and $M$</font><br/>

### Remark.

Every bounded measurable function on $E$ is necessarily Lebesgue integrable

## Theorem.

*The relationship of 'bounded' and 'Lebesgue integrable'*
Let $f$ be a Lebesgue measurable function on $E$. If $f$ is bounded on $E$, then $f$ is Lebesgue integrable on $E$.

### Proof.
By defination, we consider the existence of limit of sum $$S(D) = \sum_{k=1}^n \eta_k m(E_k)$$ for every partition $$D: m < y_{0} < y_{1} < … < y_{n-1} < y_{n}$$ Hard to consider $D$ and $\eta_k$ at the same time, we turn to consider : $$ \overline{S} (D) := \sum_{k=1}^n y_{k-1}m(E_k) \underline{S} (D) := \sum_{k=1}^n y_{k}m(E_k)$$ if both of them are bounded the proof compelte.
Note that $m(E)<\infty$ and $f$ is bounded on $E$, obviously, $$A:=\{ \overline{S}(D)\} \:\: B:=\{ \underline{S}(D)\}$$ are both bounded with $D$ is partition of [m,M]. Thus $$\overline{S} = sup_D \overline{S} (D) < \infty \:\: \underline{S} = inf_D \underline{S} (D) < \infty$$ Now we complete the proof by the following four steps:

- (i) $\underline{S} (D_1) \leq \underline{S} (D_2)$ and $\overline{S} (D_1) \leq \overline{S} (D_2)$ for $D_1 \subset D_2$
- (ii) $\underline{S} (D_1) \leq \overline{S} (D_2)$ for all partitions $D_1$ and $D_2$ ;
- (iii) $\underline{S} = \overline{S} := s$;
- (iv) $s$ is the Lebesgue integral value of $f$ on $E$

### Lemma.

Let $f$ be a Lebesgue measurable function on $E$. If $m \leq f \leq M$ then $$m\cdot m(E) \leq \int_E f(x)dx \leq M \cdot m(E)$$

<font color="#660066"> The proof is easy, by the def of D. but you should care about the Interval, this can be solved by $\epsilon$ </font><br/>

## Theorem. (Finite additivity)

Let $f$ be a bounded Lebesgue measurable function on E. Then $$ \int_E f(x)dx = \sum_{k=1}^n \int_{F_k} f(x)dx $$ where $ F_1,F_2,…,F_n $ are Lebesgue measurabel subsets of $E$, $F_i \cap F_j = \empty$ and $E = \cup_{k=1}^n F_k$

### Proof.

<font color="#660066">This theorem can be proof by recursion</font><br/>

### Corollary.

Let $f$ be Lebesgue integrable on $E$ and let $E_0 \subset E$. If $m(E_0) = 0$, then $f$ is Lebesgue integrable on $ E \setminus E_0 $ and $$\int_E f(x)dx = \int_{E\setminus {E_0}} f(x)dx $$

## Theorem. (Linear property)

Let $f,g$ be two bounded Lebesgue measurable functions on E. Then $$\int_E (af(x)+bg(x))dx = a\int_E f(x)dx+ b\int_E g(x)dx$$ for all $ a,b \in R $

### Proof.

It sufficient to prove that $$\int_E a f(x) = a \int_E f(x)dx $$ and $$ \int_E(f(x)+g(x))dx = \int_E f(x)dx + \int_E g(x)dx $$ The first euqality follows from the definition of the Lebesgue integral, immediately. 
For the second one, we take m,M such that $ m < f,g,f+g < M $ and consider each partition $$ D:= m = y_{0} < y_{1} < … < y_{n-1} < y_{n} = M $$ Denote $$ E_{ij}:=E(y_{i-1} \leq f < y_i <… < y_{j-1} < g < y_j) $$ for $ i,j = 1,2,3...n. $ Then $ E_{ij} $ are disjoint and $ E = \cup_{i,j = 1}^n E_{ij}$
Thus by the Lemma above we have $$ \int_{E_{ij}} f(x)+g(x)dx \leq (y_i + y_j) m(E_{ij}) $$ $$ = (y_i - y_{i-1} + y_j - y_{j-1} + y_{i-1} +y_{j-1})m(E_{ij}) $$ $$ \leq 2\delta(D) + y_{i-1} +y_{j-1}m(E_{ij})$$ $$ =2\delta(D)m(E_{ij}) + \int_{E_{ij}} y_{i-1}dx + \int_{E_{ij}} y_{j-1}dx $$ $$ \leq 2\delta(D)m(E_{ij})+ \int_{E_{ij}} f(x)dx + \int_{E_{ij}} g(x)dx$$ for all $i,j = 1,2,3...,n. $ Therefore $$ \int_E (f(x)+g(x))dx \leq 2\delta (D)m(E)+\int_E f(x)dx + \int_E g(x)dx $$  By letting $\delta(D) \rightarrow 0$ we obtain $$ \int_E (f(x)+g(x)) \leq \int_E f(x)dx + \int_E g(x)dx $$ 
The inverse inequality can also be obtained by analogous argument. Indeed, $$ \int_{E_{ij}} f(x)dx+ \int_{E_{ij}} g(x)dx \leq (y_i+y_j)m(E_{ij})$$ $$ =(y_i-y_{i-1}+y_j-y_{j-1})m(E_{ij})+(y_{i-1}+y_{j-1}m(E_{ij}))$$ $$ \leq 2\delta (D) m(E_{ij}) + \int_{E_{ij}} + \int_{E_{ij}} (y_{i-1}+y_{j-1})dx$$ $$ \leq 2\delta (D)m(E_{ij})+ \int_{E_{ij}} (f(x)+g(x))dx $$ so that the finte additivity gives 
$$ \int_E f(x)dx +\int_E g(x)dx $$ $$ = \sum_{i,j=0}^n(\int_{E_{ij}} f(x)dx + \int_{E_{ij}} g(x)dx)$$ $$ \leq 2 \delta (D) \sum_{i,j = 0}^n m(E_{ij}) + \sum_{i,j = 0}^n \int_{E_{ij}} (f(x)+g(x))dx $$ $$ = 2\delta (D) m(E) + \int_E (f(x)+g(x))dx $$ By letting  $\delta (D) \rightarrow 0$, we obtain the inequality desired.

### Lemma.

Let $f$ be a bounded Lebesgue measurable function on E and let $f \leq 0(a.e.)$. Then $$ \int_E f(x)dx \leq 0 .$$ In particular, if $\int_E f(x)dx = 0 $ then $f = 0(a.e.)$

## Theorem. (Monotonicity)

Let $f,g$ be two bounded Lebesgue measurable functions on E. If $f\leq g (a.e.)$, then $$ \int_E f(x)dx \leq \int_E g(x)dx $$ In particular $$ \int_E f(x)dx = \int_E g(x)dx $$ whenever $ f=g (a.e.)$

### Proof. 

It is a direct consequence of the lemma above by considering $h:= g-f $

## Corollary.

Let f be a bounded Lebesgue measurable function on E. Then $$ \mid \int_E f(x)dx \mid \leq \int_E \mid f(x) \mid dx$$

### proof.

The conclusion is clear once we observe that $$ -\mid f \mid \leq f \leq \mid f \mid$$